Early Learning Program in Rwanda
    BRIEF HISTORY
    Our Early Learning Program (ELP) started in 2013 with purpose of helping toddles to be able to read earlier.
    This programm started in Gisenyi Western province in partnership with Mr Steven Bhardwaj from USA,and Youth in Action for Development YADE, represented by HAKUZWEYEZU Elisee.
    We started this programm because we wanted to help toddlers from different familes to have better access to education.
    
    Where do we work?
    This ELP  has been implemented in Gisenyi sector, Rubavu district, Western province,but we plan to extend the programm in all territories of Rwanda.

    Who is doing the program?
    For a good and sustainable ELP, we trained the youth in this program. When they became skilled,they started doing ELP with children in different areas of Gisenyi and Rubavu sectors of Rubavu District.
    Parents have been trained so that they can coach their babies at home at any time, as babies feel confortable when coached by their relatives. But when parents may not have enough time, we train different youth and give them the skills that will help them to be good friends with the children they will  be coaching.
    
    How does it work?
    This refers to the strategies applied to do perfectly the programm.
    a. We have to prepare the materials such as toys, pictures, balls, flash cards,or music instruments.
    b. Before the session, we have to ceate a good atmosphere in the place you will have sessions with the kid. Make sure that the kid is confortable and happy with you, and you have to be happy too. You can dance, sing, play, jump, for a short time of 2 minutes. Then you pass into the reading session. 
    c. In the reading session, we present the five flashcards to the kid during 5 seconds (one second each).  The exercise has to be fast.
    d. The 5-second reading session is followed by another minute of celebration. When you finish each session you have to congratulate the kid for his/her good job.  Also, after presenting the flash cards to the baby, don't delay to hide them. 

    The Beneficiaries of the program
    a. Children: They are targeted by ELP because we want them to be able to read and to calculate earlier.  This will help them to progress in school.
    b. Parents: Parents
    
    
   
